#Dead Simple Drill Downs#

####Using C3.js and D3.js####


I noticed when building the drill down graphs for our application that the documentation for the charting library (http://c3js.org/examples.html) we use didn’t offer a simple example like they did for some of their other features. While building a drill down using C3.js is simple, it wasn’t always obvious what the necessary steps were to get it up and running. 

This inspired me to put together a demo that aims to help developers get a quick start on building their own drill down charts. This demo only drills down one level in a chart, but it covers all the basics around adding click events and unloading and loading data. 

```html
<div id='chart' breadcrumb-level='0'></div>
```

In this demo I’ve created a `div` that will be used as the container for the chart. I’ve added an attribute called `breadcrumb-level` that I will use to keep track of the depth of the drill down. While the drill down may only go down one level, it would be easy to expand to as many levels as necessary. 

It would also be beneficial to keep track of time intervals, previous queries, and any other relevant data for your charts. Keep this in mind when building your charts.

The chart that is loaded in this demo spans across three days (May 01, 2015 - May 03, 2015). Each column in the chart has a click event on it that will load the data for each individual day. The click event is added to data when creating the chart.

```javascript
var chart = c3.generate({
            bindto: '#chart',
            data: {
            ...
            onclick: function (columnData, element) {
                  // onclick will pass the column that was clicked to the function loadData()
                  // loadData() will update the chart with the new data
                  loadData(columnData);
              }
            },
            ...
```

When a column is clicked the column data and element are available to us to use. The column data contains useful information like the index, label, and in this case the date. In the function loadData() I pass the column data’s index which is used to determine which day was clicked. At topLog we often drill down using dates so grabbing the column data’s date and a time interval that we store in the page (days, hours, minutes) allows us to perform AJAX requests to our servers for specific periods of time. 

When updating a chart that already exists we must first unload the current columns before we can load in the new values.

```javascript
chart.unload(‘x’); // old column data
chart.load({
    columns: data // new column data                
});
```

Once the chart has been updated, I update the bread crumb with the date from the column that was just clicked on and I increase the `breadcrumb-level` attribute that I created earlier. By updating the `breadcrumb-level` attribute I can verify that I don't accidently allow the user to drill down deeper than what was intended.


