---
layout: post
title:  "HTML Encoding with JQuery"
date:   2015-03-19 9:00:00
categories: DevOps, alerts
tags: jquery, dev
author: ryan
description: "There were a few cases where our server returned text which could contain HTML characters that we wanted to insert into a page using JavaScript."
share: true

---

#HTML Encoding with jQuery

There were a few cases where our server returned text which could contain HTML characters that we wanted to insert into a page using JavaScript. Using the standard `$('#container').html("<div>Something</div>")` wasn't an option because if "Something" contained HTML characters, jQuery treated it as HTML and placed it in the DOM. For example, `$('#container').html("<div>Something <strong>here</strong></div>")` would bold the "here" text when we actually wants to put the text "Something <strong>here</strong>" in the container instead.

The solution to this was HTML-encoding the string, but surprisingly JavaScript doesn't have a HTML-encoding function. After searching for options, we stumbled upon one that was quite simple and made use of jQuery which we already use quite heavily. We created the folliwing two functions to do the heavy lifting.

```javascript
function htmlEncode(value) 
{
    return $("<div/>").text(value).html();
}

function htmlDecode(value)
{
    return $("<div/>").html(value).text();
}
```

In essence we create a div element in memory, but don't append it to the document. In `htmlEncode` we set the text of the element, and return its encoded HTML. In `htmlDecode` we do the opposite and set its HTML to the value, while returning its decoded text value. Below are some examples of what each function returns.

```javascript
htmlEncode("Testing"); // "Testing"
htmlEncode("<div>Testing</div>");  // "&lt;div&gt;Testing&lt;/div&gt;"
htmlEncode("Testing <span>Example</span>"); // "Testing &lt;span&gt;Example&lt;/span&gt;"

htmlDecode("&lt;div&gt;Testing&lt;/div&gt;"); // "<div>Testing</div>"
htmlDecode("Testing &lt;span&gt;Example&lt;/span&gt;"); // "Testing <span>Example</span>"
```

Now whenever we need to HTML encode or decode text in JavaScript we can simply call either of these functions and let jQuery do the work for us.

